Ibrahim alaga left Gaza for good during
the fighting in
2009 settling in Ireland he's stayed
ever since I think it was an easy
decision life in Gaza is very
tough there aren't
many there's no opportunity for young
people and it's very difficult life over
there with his own growing family he
sometimes returned to see relatives
during his most recent visit the war in
Gaza trapped his family there for weeks
and look look at this
unbelievable Ibrahim captured the
experience with his phone oh my God
today is
Saturday um I just went out to get bread
for hoping the Irish government would
help evacuate his family unfortunately
we didn't make it to the list for today
to exit Gaza but he and the dozens of
other Irish citizens inside Gaza waited
weeks to get on the list of foreign
Nationals allowed to leave I think we
stayed 42 days as a total in Gaza before
we left with every message coming from
Ireland it reminded us of the good days
that we had here his moment of
homecoming felt like a dream Ibrahim
says the warm welcome back part of
Ireland's political reality I think
Palestinians in general here they feel
they
are more welcomed than anywhere else in
Europe the reasons for this support are
rooted in the country's painful past
experiences with its English neighbors I
think there's a huge solidarity with uh
Palestine in Ireland there has been
historically we understand settler
colonialism because we were evicted from
our land and settlers put in our land
historically 90% of Irish people right
across the political spectrum is in
support of a Palestinian State and um an
a permanent ceasefire the current Irish
government has called for that ceasefire
but is cautious about Hardline public
criticism of Israel that's because
Ireland says it wants to retain a
constructive role in calming the
conflict Ireland wants to be a friend of
Israel to work with Israel to really
appeal to Israel to its inner being we
have no skin in the game one way or
another we our our sole interest our
conflict resolution and peace as a
neutral state in this very complex
problem for Ibrahim the support shown
for those still inside Gaza At Dem
demonstrations like this serves as a
strong reminder that his new nation is a
hospitable Home D marks Al jazer Dublin
Ireland make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer